Page 1

Table of Contents

☑

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended August 29, 2021

or

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Washington

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

Title of each class

Commission file number 0-20355

Costco Wholesale Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027

91-1223280

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (425) 313-8100
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, $.01 Par Value

Trading Symbol

COST

Name of each exchange on
which registered

The NASDAQ Global Select Market

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☑ No ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☑
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes ☑ No □

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes
☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer", "smaller reporting company", and "emerging growth company" in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

Non-accelerated filer

☑

Accelerated filer

☐

Smaller reporting company
Emerging growth company

☐ ☐ ☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its
audit report. ☑

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☑

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of February 14, 2021 was $155,810,963,274.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of September 28, 2021, was 441,823,811.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on January 20, 2022, are incorporated by reference into Part III of
this Form 10-K.

---
Page 2

Table of Contents

PART I

COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED AUGUST 29, 2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

Item 1.

Business

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

Item 1B.

Item 2.

Unresolved Staff Comments

Properties

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures

19

19

19

19

39의의의의

PART II
Item 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity.
Securities

Item 6.
Item 7.

Item 7A.

Item 8.

Reserved

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

Other Information

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

222328

20

21

31

33

65

65

66

Item 9.

Item 9A.

Item 9B.

PART III

Item 10.

Item 11.

Item 12.

Item 13.

Item 14.

PART IV

Item 15.

Item 16.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Executive Compensation

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
Principal Accounting Fees and Services

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

Form 10-K Summary

Signatures

2

66

66

66

66

66

88888

66

882

69

70

---
Page 3

Table of Contents

INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements contained in this Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. They include statements that
address activities, events, conditions or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future and may relate to such matters as
sales growth, changes in comparable sales, cannibalization of existing locations by new openings, price or fee changes, earnings performance,
earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, warehouse openings and closures, capital spending, the effect of adopting certain
accounting standards, future financial reporting, financing, margins, return on invested capital, strategic direction, expense controls, membership
renewal rates, shopping frequency, litigation, and the demand for our products and services. Forward-looking statements may also be identified
by the words "anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “likely,” “may,” “might,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,”
"seek,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would," or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Such forward-looking statements involve risks
and uncertainties that may cause actual events, results, or performance to differ materially from those indicated by such statements, including,
without limitation, the factors set forth in the section titled “Item 1A-Risk Factors", and other factors noted in the section titled "Item 7-
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in the consolidated financial statements and
related notes in Item 8 of this Report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update
these statements, except as required by law.

PART I

Item 1-Business

Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries (Costco or the Company) began operations in 1983, in Seattle, Washington. We are
principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States (U.S.) and Puerto Rico, Canada, United Kingdom (U.K.),
Mexico, Japan, Korea, Australia, Spain, France, Iceland, China, and through a majority-owned subsidiary in Taiwan. Costco operated 815, 795,
and 782 warehouses worldwide at August 29, 2021, August 30, 2020, and September 1, 2019, respectively. The Company operates e-
commerce websites in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, U.K., Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and Australia. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global
Select Market, under the symbol "COST."

We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen four-week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first
three quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week
year). The material seasonal impact in our operations is increased net sales and earnings during the winter holiday season. References to 2021,
2020, and 2019 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 29, 2021, August 30, 2020, and September 1, 2019, respectively.

General

We operate membership warehouses and e-commerce websites based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited
selection of nationally-branded and private-label products in a wide range of categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory
turnover. When combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution and reduced handling of
merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, these volumes and turnover enable us to operate profitably at significantly lower gross
margins (net sales less merchandise costs) than most other retailers. We generally sell inventory before we are required to pay for it, even while
taking advantage of early payment discounts.

We buy most of our merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to cross-docking consolidation points (depots) or directly to our
warehouses. Our depots receive large shipments from manufacturers and quickly ship these goods to warehouses. This process creates freight
volume and handling efficiencies, lowering costs associated with traditional multiple-step distribution channels. For our e-

3

---
Page 4

Table of Contents

commerce operations we ship merchandise through our depots, our logistics operations for big and bulky items, as well as through drop-ship
and other delivery arrangements with our suppliers.

Our average warehouse space is approximately 146,000 square feet, with newer units being slightly larger. Floor plans are designed for
economy and efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted
principally by the quality of merchandise and low prices, our warehouses are not elaborate. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits and
using a membership format, we believe our inventory losses (shrinkage) are well below those of typical retail operations.

Our warehouses on average operate on a seven-day, 70-hour week. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of
operation are shorter than other retailers, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse-type operation, labor costs are lower relative to
the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities,
reducing labor required. In general, with variations by country, our warehouses accept certain credit cards, including Costco co-branded cards,
debit cards, cash and checks, co-brand cardholder rebates, Executive member 2% reward certificates and our proprietary stored-value card
(shop card).

Our strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high-quality merchandise at prices we believe are consistently lower than
elsewhere. We seek to limit most items to fast-selling models, sizes, and colors. We carry less than 4,000 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per
warehouse in our core warehouse business, significantly less than other broadline retailers. We average anywhere from 9,000 to 11,000 SKUs
online, some of which are also available in our warehouses. Many consumable products are offered for sale in case, carton, or multiple-pack
quantities only.

In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we typically have a
90-day return policy and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty. Additional third-party warranty
coverage is sold on certain electronic items.

We offer merchandise and services in the following categories:

Core Merchandise Categories (or core business):

•

.

Foods and Sundries (including sundries, dry grocery, candy, cooler, freezer, deli, liquor, and tobacco)

Non-Foods (previously Hardlines and Softlines; including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, garden and
patio, sporting goods, tires, toys and seasonal, office supplies, automotive care, postage, tickets, apparel, small appliances, furniture,
domestics, housewares, special order kiosk, and jewelry)

Fresh Foods (including meat, produce, service deli, and bakery)

Warehouse Ancillary (includes gasoline, pharmacy, optical, food court, hearing aids, and tire installation) and Other Businesses (includes e-
commerce, business centers, travel, and other)

Warehouse ancillary businesses operate primarily within or next to our warehouses, encouraging members to shop more frequently. The number
of warehouses with gas stations varies significantly by country, and we have no gasoline business in Korea or China. We operated 636 gas
stations at the end of 2021. Net sales for our gasoline business represented approximately 9% of total net sales in 2021.

Our other businesses sell products and services that complement our warehouse operations (core and warehouse ancillary businesses). Our e-
commerce operations give members convenience and a broader selection of goods and services. Net sales for e-commerce represented
approximately 7% of total net sales in 2021. This figure does not consider other services we offer online in certain countries such as business
delivery, travel, same-day grocery, and various other services. Our business centers carry items tailored specifically for food services,
convenience stores and offices, and offer walk-in shopping and deliveries. Business centers are included in our total warehouse count. Costco
Travel offers vacation

4

---
Page 5

Table of Contents

packages, hotels, cruises, and other travel products exclusively for Costco members (offered in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K.).

We have direct buying relationships with many producers of brand-name merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise
from any one supplier. The COVID-19 pandemic created unprecedented supply constraints, including disruptions and delays that have impacted
and could continue to impact the flow and availability of certain products. When sources of supply become unavailable, we seek alternative
sources. We also purchase and manufacture private-label merchandise, as long as quality and member demand are high and the value to our
members is significant.

Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in
Item 8 of this Report.

Membership

Our members may utilize their memberships at all of our warehouses and websites. Gold Star memberships are available to individuals;
Business memberships are limited to businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license or comparable document.
Business members may add additional cardholders (affiliates), to which the same annual fee applies. Affiliates are not available for Gold Star
members. Our annual fee for these memberships is $60 in our U.S. and Canadian operations and varies in other countries. All paid
memberships include a free household card.

Our member renewal rate was 91% in the U.S. and Canada and 89% worldwide at the end of 2021. The majority of members renew within six
months following their renewal date. Our renewal rate is a trailing calculation that captures renewals during the period seven to eighteen months
prior to the reporting date. Our membership counts include active memberships as well as memberships that have not renewed within the 12
months prior to the reporting date. At the end of 2020, we standardized our membership count methodology globally to be consistent with the
U.S. and Canada, which resulted in the addition to the count of approximately 2.0 million total cardholders for 2020, of which 1.3 million were
paid members. The change did not impact 2019. Membership fee income and the renewal rate calculations were not affected. Our membership
was made up of the following (in thousands):

Gold Star

Business, including affiliates

Total paid members

Household cards

Total cardholders

2021

2020

2019

50,200

46,800

42,900

11,500

11,300

11,000

61,700

58,100

53,900

49,900

47,400

44,600

111,600

105,500

98,500

Paid cardholders (except affiliates) are eligible to upgrade to an Executive membership in the U.S. and Canada, for an additional annual fee of
$60. Executive memberships are also available in Mexico, the U.K., Japan, Korea, and Taiwan, for which the additional annual fee varies.
Executive members earn a 2% reward on qualified purchases (generally up to a maximum reward of $1,000 per year), which can be redeemed
only at Costco warehouses. This program also offers (except in Mexico and Korea), access to additional savings and benefits on various
business and consumer services, such as auto and home insurance, the Costco auto purchase program, and check printing. These services are
generally provided by third parties and vary by state and country. Executive members totaled 25.6 million and represented 55% of paid members
(excluding affiliates) in the U.S. and Canada and 17% of paid members (excluding affiliates) in our Other International operations at the end of
2021. They generally shop more frequently and spend more than other members.

5

---
Page 6

Table of Contents

Human Capital

Our Code of Ethics requires that we "Take Care of Our Employees," which is fundamental to the obligation to "Take Care of Our Members." We
must also carefully control our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, so that we can sell high quality goods and services at low
prices. Compensation and benefits for employees is our largest expense after the cost of merchandise and is carefully monitored.

At the end of 2021, we employed 288,000 employees worldwide. The large majority (approximately 95%) is employed in our membership
warehouses and distribution channels and approximately 17,000 employees are represented by unions. We also utilize seasonal employees
during peak periods. The total number of employees by segment is:

United States

Canada

Other International

Total employees

2021

Number of Employees
2020

2019

192,000

181,000

167,000

47,000

49,000

46,000
46,000

42,000

45,000

288,000

273,000

254,000

We believe that our warehouses are among the most productive in the retail industry, owing in substantial part to the commitment and efficiency
of our employees. We seek to provide them not merely with employment but careers. Many attributes of our business contribute to the objective;
the more significant include: competitive compensation and benefits for those working in our membership warehouses and distributions
channels; a commitment to promoting from within; and maintaining a ratio of at least 50% of our employee base being full-time employees.
These attributes contribute to what we consider, especially for the industry, a high retention rate. In 2021, in the U.S. that rate was above 90% for
employees who have been with us for at least one year.

The commitment to "Take Care of Our Employees" is also the foundation of our approach to diversity, equity and inclusion and creating an
inclusive and respectful workplace. In 2021, we added training and communication for managers on topics of race, bias and equity, and greater
visibility of our employee demographics. Embracing differences is important to the growth of our Company. It leads to more opportunities,
innovation, and employee satisfaction and connects us to the communities where we do business.

Costco is firmly committed to helping protect the health and safety of our members and employees and to serving our communities. In response
to the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated challenges, we began providing premium pay to the majority of our hourly employees in March
2020 and continued for a full year through February 2021, at which time a portion of the premium was built permanently into our hourly wage
scales in the U.S. In fall 2020, we also began offering employees additional paid time off to attend to child care and schooling needs through the
2021 school year. As the global effect of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to evolve, we are closely monitoring the changing situation and
complying with public health guidance.

For more detailed information regarding our programs and initiatives, see “Employees" within our Sustainability Commitment (located on our
website). This report and other information on our website are not incorporated by reference into and do not form any part of this Annual Report.

6